Our primary backend uses Infiniband Remote Direct Memory Access (RDMA) to talk
to a server managing a large pool of memory. At startup, the remote memory
server maps in a large block of system memory. The server then listens for
connections over the Infiniband fabric. When a client connects, the server
pins the memory in the page table and registers it with the infiniband drivers.
Registering with the infiniband drivers provides a local key and a remote key.
The server transmits the remote key and starting address to the client.
This allows the client to perform one-sided RDMA operations to the remote
memory without the server's mediation.

The \texttt{put()} and \texttt{get()} commands are implemented using one-sided
RDMA writes and reads. The other commands are implemented using two-sided sends
and receives. For these commands, the client and server each allocate two
message structs: one for sends, and one for receives. In a two-sided
transmission, the recipient first posts a receive request to the Infiniband
driver. This receive request specifies the local key and address of the receive
struct. When the sender posts a corresponding send request using the local key
and address of its send struct, the infiniband drivers copy the data from the
sender's send struct to the recipient's receive struct and notify sender and
recipient of the operation.

\begin{figure}
    \includegraphics[width=0.9\linewidth]{ib-backend-arch.pdf}
    \caption{IB Backend Architecture}
    \label{fig:ib-backend-arch}
\end{figure}

\subsubsection{Allocation}

The \texttt{malloc()} operation is implemented by sending an ALLOC request to
the server. When it receives this request, the server will allocate a block of
memory form the memory pool and mark it with the given tag.  The server then
sends a MEMRESP message back to the client containing the starting address of
the allocated block.

The \texttt{free()} operation is implemented by sending a TXN\_FREE request to
the server. A key feature of the IB backend is that the server does not
immediately perform a free operation when it receives the TXN\_FREE message.
Instead, it puts the free operation in a queue, which will be processed during
an atomic commit. This way, the free operation is transactional. Once the
server receives the message and queues the free operation, it sends a TXN\_ACK
message back to the client, allowing the client to send another command.

There are also MULTI\_ALLOC and MULTI\_TXN\_FREE requests which can encode up
to 20 allocation or free requests (this number if configurable at compile
time). The server responds to a MULTI\_ALLOC request with a MULTI\_MEMRESP
response, which contains an array of addresses, one for each tag in the
MULTI\_ALLOC request. The server responds to MULTI\_TXN\_FREE with a TXN\_ACK.

\subsubsection{Commit}

The \texttt{atomic\_commit()} operation involves two different message types.
The first is the MULTI\_TXN\_CP message, which instructs the server to copy a
set of source blocks to a set of destination blocks. However, as with
TXN\_FREE, the copy does not occur immediately. When the client sends the
server a TXN\_GO request, the server performs all requested copies and frees.
In our failure model, we assume that the server will not crash. So even if the
client crashes after sending TXN\_GO, the copies and frees will still be
performed to completion. If the client crashes before sending TXN\_GO, all of
the outstanding copy and free requests will be flushed and no changes will
occur.

\subsubsection{Recovery}

If a client reconnects after a crash, the IB server transmits the tag to
address mappings left over from the previous run to the client. The mappings
are transmitted to the client in groups of twenty through TAG\_ADDR\_MAP
messages. The client acknowledges each TAG\_ADDR\_MAP message with a
STARTUP\_ACK message.
